the purpose of this video is not to
criticize the teenagers and young men
who are addicted to video games it's not
i want to criticize the middle-aged
adults who give them encouragement to do
something more meaningful with their
lives all right because I think we suck
at it
I think middle aged authority figures
have so totally discredited themselves
that I have to almost give credit to the
video game addicts that they've made a
sort of logically sound self-interested
decision and just giving up on all this
[ __ ] middle-aged people encourage
them to do and going to live in
isolation playing video games right the
mentality of middle-aged adults is the
same when they encourage young people to
play video games and when they encourage
them to you know go isolate themselves
and do some other activity that they say
is more meaningful right they the
mentality of a typical parent in the
21st century not all parents but a
typical parent really if you think about
this with attachment it's likely to be
most your parents most the time will
have this mentality typical parent
mentality is sit the kid down in front
of the TV let him play video games
because as long as the kids playing TV
video games on in front of the TV the
kid is occupied the kid is pacified the
kid is not getting injured kids not
getting into trouble the parents don't
have to make a bunch of phone calls the
parents don't have to drive you
somewhere and pick you up afterwards in
their car the parents don't have to pay
for lessons the parents don't have to
pay for tutors think think about it from
a lazy parents perspective what's better
that your kid sits on the floor playing
video games or your kid wants to learn
how to play the saxophone alright if
your kid's gonna learn to play the
saxophone cost the parents money and it
also cost the parents time and energy
and involvement right parent at least
has to make some phone calls to some
saxophone teacher you have to kind of
meet the teacher to side which one's a
good teacher maybe the kid take some
saxophone lessons but then the kid
doesn't like this teacher and the
teachers on this kid find a different
teacher you know get them set up this
way encouraging your kid and being a
with your kid if they're gonna learn
saxophone is infinitely more work than
just having your kid sit on the couch
and play and here's the other more
fundamental problem for these
middle-aged people the way in which they
discredit themselves the things they
encourage children and young adults to
do are just as meaningless as playing
video games or they are even worse
like oh okay so what's the problem with
video games promo video games is johnny
is sitting in isolation just doing kind
of a repetitive manual skill you know
for three hours here's what you should
do Johnny you should quit playing video
games and go sit in your room and
practice playing the violin practice
playing the piano practice playing the
the saxophone you know will be more
meaningful would be you sitting alone in
your room in a state of total isolation
practicing a repetitive manual skill
right it's the same problem but it's
even worse why well for one thing video
games have a tiny amount of social
interaction right I mean we know about
this whether it's through YouTube or
through discs or through voice chat or
just by them going and talking to their
friends at school okay playing a musical
instrument is more isolating and play
musical instrument requires hundreds of
hours of repetitious practice okay but
also the problem we were trying to solve
here middle aged people the promo turn
solved was trying to connect these video
game addicts with a meaningful
engagement with reality and the abstract
world of memorizing different notes from
sheet music and then performing them
accurately and timing them accurately
right the world of introducing a young
person to the musical compositions of JS
Bach or you know Beethoven or something
that has no meaningful connection with
reality it's just as artificial it's
just as phony and just as fake as
playing video games right playing
football playing soccer middle-aged
people do this with no humor they're not
joking like
oh gee playing video games is a waste of
your time and it's meaningless and so on
you should try football or soccer or
baseball these are also games these also
do not have a meaningful connection to
reality these also are not about like
taking responsibility to make the world
a better place and they also involve
hundreds of hours of practicing a manual
skill in isolation my grandmother took
me once ma'am I'm so glad I didn't get
into this my grandmother took me once to
learn to play tennis
mind blowing this ever happened English
did so she drove me was a long drive and
she puts me in front of a concrete wall
she gives me a tennis racket and she's
okay so stand here and practice hitting
the ball back and forth against this
concrete wall but that that particular
grandmother she was she was not a poor
woman in case you guys are like
imagining like some poverty-stricken I
don't know
urban ghetto with like this concrete
wall tool but that that grandmother of
my other grandmother worked in a factory
but that grandmother she was a dentist
she played tennis wow this is this is
what you think raising a child is like
this is how do you think you encourage a
child have a more meaningful life and
that was I was a little kid that I was
still playing video games whoa gee
standing here alone beating up a ball
against the wall like this is worse than
playing video games that you got to give
the video game addicts credit they're
kind of making a rational logical
decision we're like everything they're
being presented with all the options and
opportunities to be presented with are
even worse than video games and they're
making this rational choice to isolate
themselves in a simulated world that yes
I would readily say it's better than
watching football on TV it's better than
playing football and whatever pathetic
you know capacity you may be able to do
so in your neighborhood it doesn't
require the huge waste of time and money
that's involved in trying to get
yourself involved in a football or
basketball or tennis league or something
wherever you are I've known people who
do all that stuff at their time whatever
may yell like given a set of complete
meaningless isolating anti-social
options none of which have a meaningful
connection to reality
they're making the right choice by
playing video games all right and the
middle-aged people who are having
interventions normally these middle-aged
people themselves don't lead any kind of
meaningful life they don't really have
any moral superior they don't have any
moral superiority to draw on right these
middle-aged people themselves may spend
their time drinking alcohol watching
football going gambling in Las Vegas but
you can't do even worse than video games
if you if you play video games I'm glad
you're not a gambling addict you know
then your life will be completely ruined
right these middle-aged people they have
may have no ground to stand on in terms
of Oscar but they presume moral
superiority because playing video games
is so despicable and all these
alternatives they're actually even worse
than playing video games and you know
encouragement it's so easy to encourage
people that will really waste their time
and ruin their opportunities in life
short term and long term and presented
as the greatest thing just because it's
convenient for you if you're the
middle-aged authority figure giving them
this encouragement right like oh yeah
yeah you should you should totally um
you should totally volunteer to help
drug addicts
oh like oh yeah you should go you should
go you know help drug addicts give them
free clothing and food down with this
charity Oh what would you do that also
would we go together no no I mean okay
so now we're getting into something
where there's some kind of meaningful
connection to reality right so this is
different now we're not talking about
tennis we're not talking about watching
football we're not talking about playing
the harp you know playing the piano okay
okay so this is a little bit different
but now we get into a different set of
problems also all right yeah for one
thing if this was so meaningful you'd be
willing to deal with me you'd have some
experience doing it so and so forth
but what do you think the impact is
really gonna be on this younger person
if they go and start handing out food to
homeless people right like don't you
think the impact is gonna be like wow
the world outside my door is really
hopeless really messed up I'm totally
disempowered in relation to it there's
no way I can help these drug addicts
live a better life you know this is this
you know you see the bleak stinking
fetid hopelessness of what this is right
a large percentage of them are gonna
have this experience briefly and say hey
you know what I'm gonna go back to my
room and close the door and play video
games
right and again you know all these
things bring within the question of
whether it's the parent or whoever it is
this middle aged authority figure you
know are you gonna drive them there
you're gonna pick them up afterwards
there's a certain level of commitment
engagement you know moving beyond
encouragement with mere words where you
know are you actually gonna enable them
to do this pause supposedly positive
thing in their lives and are you even
gonna do some kind of research to
question you know to what extent is this
positive to what extent is this
meaningful so I had someone write in to
me this guy says he is himself a part of
the speedrunning subculture of video
games he's also part of the video game
collecting and game history preservation
subculture and he says that he spends a
lot of time trying to talk to these guys
these guys who are either videogame
addicts or just spending a lot of time
playing video games when we're trying to
encourage them to lead a more meaningful
life what do we mean by a moment in for
life a life where they're interested in
taking responsibility for the
consequence their actions or life or
they're trying to make the world a
better place a life where they have some
kind of compassionate engagement with
reality I guess and you know he's asking
me what would I do what would you do
what could any of us do if you're if
you're in this way if you're close to
someone who's playing video games to
learn at their time you know what I
think the truth is what we need here is
not compassion but detachment I always
find it's very easy to broach these
problems with people and he talks about
also the difficulty of trying to raise
this issue with someone where you don't
just get a combative and defense
response okay well what if you were the
parent and you have a child would you
want your own child playing video games
for 40 hours per week and this is the
this is the speedrunning subculture so
some of these people are playing video
games for 40 hours continuously like you
know for two day is doing nothing this
is a particular subculture then well
let's just say it's 40 hours a week I
mean if you have a child and you're
trying to prepare that child to lead a
meaningful life or to have a good job or
what have you if you want to make the
world a better place would you recommend
that your own child do this for 40 hours
a week
that may work with some people where
they take a step back and now that it
now that it's suddenly not them
justifying their own habit and their own
enjoyment
it's them justifying someone else's use
their time there's a little bit of
detachment there you know and you could
also use this technique with reference
to other historical figures whether
they're alive now or or deceased you
know let's say the person is complaining
about Donald Trump you know I say you
know you know what would make Donald
Trump a lot better at these decisions
would be if he played video games he was
speed running mario 64 every week for 40
hours a week you know just imagine what
a better place the world would be if our
leaders were playing video games were
speedrunning video games if that was
their top forward that was it now again
this is obviously joking around a bit
that can be a way to get past it but so
you know you know really think about it
really think about whether or not the
people who have real power real ability
to change the world whether or not their
time would be better spent playing video
games than doing whatever is they do it
again may not be a political leader it
may be a research scientist new whatever
and then try to invite people to
consider themselves in that context okay
well what do you think is the difference
between you and Donald
you probably think you're more
intelligent than Donald Trump and you're
probably correct we've all gotten to see
just how limited the cognitive capacity
of Donald Trump was over the last
several years even if you support him
politically it's gonna be very hard to
judge who was more mentally limited
george w bush or donald trump when this
chapter of history is is over with okay
doesn't matter if it's donald trump or
some other political favor okay
so I mean okay so look you're more
gifted than Donald Trump let's just
start from that assumption
so you're someone whatever age you are
doesn't matter if they're young or
teenager or fully grown man whoever you
speak to okay so you know you know
you've got more potential than Donald
Trump you know that when Donald Trump
was in high school and university he's
famously he's covered up his grades we
all know he got bad grades we all know
he's a dumb guy in various ways and all
his life is struggle with that it's sad
in this way we all know Donald Trump's a
fraud and he wasn't any good at business
and he lost a fortune and all these all
these things have been exposed now on
the public record about you know really
what a kind of pathetic Emil Donald
Trump has been isola okay okay so you
you're brighter than Donald Trump
you've got more potential Donald Trump
but you know what Donald Trump's got
going for him that you don't have Donald
Trump is not a video game at it right
Donald Trump does not play video games
for forty hours a week and look what
he's doing with this time again I admit
Donald Trump may be a somewhat surreal
example but you know if there's anyone
they actually do appreciate outside of
the video you know if there's anyone
they look to us having led a remarkable
life a life that's decisively changed
the world that's doing something
productive to make the world a better
place here now you can say yeah and you
know you know what would end that
person's career you know what would
change them totally was if they were
playing video games for forty hours a
week the way you are you know now okay
neither one of these are perfect
examples there are some people who will
reply saying yes if they have a child
they're going to encourage their own
child to play video games for forty
hours
there are some people who by the way
where they will not have that detachment
there are some people who will come back
saying oh yeah the world would be a
better place if our political leaders or
our research scientists would stop
wasting their time doing them so-called
meaningful things they're doing and
we'll just play video games instead if
only Donald Trump would play video games
instead of starting a war with Iran
there are some people who will just
double down but even if my example is my
example is inadequate or flawed or poor
here what I'm trying to get at is that
inviting someone to consider their own
situation with detachment I think that's
really the first step you have to take
because what you're asking these people
to do is to regard their own hobby with
some degree of contempt without directly
shaming them the shame is the main tool
in our Arsenal here right to say hey
you're wasting time you should be
ashamed of yourself
you're devoting yourself to this hobby
that's meaningless and it's only making
yourself a a worse person that's not
preparing you deliberately okay so you
know you can you can try using shame you
know but obviously people who are deeply
committed to this they're gonna resist
feeling shame they're gonna refuse to
feel shame they're gonna try to justify
themselves or you might say before
they're capable of feeling ashamed they
have to be able to have that detachment
where they regard their own situation
they regard their own hobby as pathetic
as bad as a waste of time gee this is
bad for me it would be bad for Donald
Trump if you were doing it would be bad
for my own children or my own
grandchildren in the future if they were
doing what I was doing Wow when I don't
just think about myself and what I want
when I think about any given person when
I think about what would be good for
anyone or for everyone now I can
recognize with some detachment this
isn't good for me right and once you can
take that step then you can start
questioning what would be a more
meaningful
life all right and I have nothing but
contempt for the middle-aged people who
will tell you to sign up to do
humanitarian work or will tell you to
learn a new language like Chinese
without any idea of what kind of
sacrifice is involved there any idea
what kind of cost this entails for the
person who makes that commitment all
right
the a meaningful life cannot just be
contrary to paper this way all right
you've got to start with a lot of sorrow
and a lot of yearning you're gonna have
to start with days weeks months or even
years of just feeling there must be a
better life than this and I don't know
what that is there must be something
better on planet earth than playing
mario 64 again and again and again until
you get the world record for the
greatest speedrun there must be
something better and maybe nobody can
tell you what that is you know when you
talk about democracy and an revolution
you know the role of revolution and
politics there are some things in
politics that you can be given and there
are some things that you have to take
for yourself
all right sometimes the people of a
country have to stand up and take
democracy there's no way a king can give
it to them
there's no way a constitution can give
it to them there's no way you know an
intervention from the United Nations can
give it to them so you know some things
can never be given they can only be
taken you know and maybe maybe the
meaning of life with a lowercase M and a
lowercase L may be what makes life
meaningful for you is of this character
where you have to irrigate it you have
to be the one who demands it you have to
be the one who first feels that you're
lacking it you know feels a yearning for
it and then gets uncomfortable and goes
out to make it happen all right
and none of this is gonna happen if you
can't take that first step of gaining
some detachment over what video games
are in your life right if you can't get
uncomfortable if you can't get
dissatisfied get dissatisfied with
yourself
get dissatisfied with the videogame get
this ass fun with life as you know it
yes but you're also going to be
dissatisfied with the middle-aged
authority figures who all your life have
been telling you what's best for you
whatever it is you do in your life
that's meaningful that replaces
videogames you were going to do it
despite those middle-aged authority
figures you're not going to do it
conforming to or trying to please those
middle-aged authority figures you are
going to rebel against videogames at the
same time as and by the same token as
you rebel against your parents your high
school principal your university
professors because even though you
yourself may be wrong in having invested
hundreds of hours into videogames all of
them were wrong when they told you to
put hundreds of hours into the violin or
hundreds of hours into prayer and
singing in church and choir when they
told you all these things about what a
meaningful life was supposed to be you
know that they were wrong that's why you
rejected their advice and accepted video
games
now you've got to reject video games and
reject them as well to find out for
yourself what a meaningful life can
really be